---
layout: default
date: 2013-04-19
title: WEP 301 Blutooth Headset
---

# {{ page.title }}

###Pairing with your Bluetooth phone

1 Enter Pairing mode.

Turn off your headset and press and hold the
Multi-function button until the blue indicator light
remains lit after blinking.

If you turn it on for the first time, it proceeds
into Pairing mode immediately.

2 Search for and pair with your phone according to
your phone’s user guide. (Bluetooth PIN: 0000, 4
zeros)

If the pairing is successful, the blue indicator
light will flash 10 times rapidly before entering
Standby mode.

If the blue indicator light remains lit, retry
pairing.

NOTE:
When the headset and the phone are paired, the
headset attempts to reconnect automatically each
time it turns on. Otherwise, press the Multi-function
button to reconnect.

###Using call functions

Some features may not be supported by your phone.

####In Standby mode

Press the Multi-function button to:

Answer an incoming call

Redial the last number called

Press and hold the Multi-function button to:

Make a voice-activated call

Reject an incoming call

Press and hold [+] and [-] at the same time to turn

the indicator light on or off.

####In Active mode

Press the Multi-function button to:

End a call

Transfer a call from the phone to the headset

Press and hold the Multi-function button to:

Place a call on hold

Answer a second call

Retrieve a call on hold

Press [+] or [-] to adjust the volume.

Press and hold [+] or [-] to turn the microphone off
or on.

###Specifications
Item Specifications and description

Bluetooth version

Compatible with Bluetooth 2.0 or
earlier

Support profile Headset Profile, Hands-Free Profile

Operating range Up to 30 feet (10 meters)

Standby time Up to 80 hours*

Talk time Up to 5 hours*

* Depending on the phone type and usage, the actual time may
vary.


- <http://www.samsung.com/us/support/owners/product/AWEP301JSE>
