---
layout: default
date: 2006-08-16
title: README
---

# {{ page.title }}


## 目录
+ [Read me first](#partI)
+ [INI file](#partII)

----------------------------------

## Read me first <p id="partI"></p>

;;==============================================================================
;; README
;;
;; This is a serial port communication utility similar to Hyperterminal on
;; MS-Windows 98/2k/XP/Vista/7/8.
;; It not only provides common funtions about serail communications, but also
;; provides USB serial port converter detecting/auto-connecting. When the USB
;; device changing is detected, the CDC serial port can be opened automatically.
;; This utility can be a serial port server as well. It will pass all data read
;; from the serail port to the client utility and pass the data from the client
;; utility to the serial port. More jobs can be done by implementing the client
;; utilities. It is listening on `[Listen_Port]/Data' port.
;;
;;------------------------------------------------------------------------------
;; Tip:
;;   - when the mouse hovers over a component, a hint is displayed.
;;
;;------------------------------------------------------------------------------
;; parameters and descriptions are shown following in "INI" file format.
;;
;;------------------------------------------------------------------------------
;; Shortcuts :
;;   F1         : shows this file
;;
;;   F6         : pick a line up and send to the serial port ... cursor is in
;;                the message window
;;
;;   Ctrl-O     : open(reopen) the serial port which shows in the port box
;;   Ctrl-C     : close the serial port currently open
;;
;;   Ctrl-Enter : send the string line to the serial port ... cursor is in the
;;                input box
;;   Alt-Enter  : send the string line to the serial port and added the line
;;                into drop down list as well ... cursor is in the input box
;;------------------------------------------------------------------------------
;; Menu:
;;   System/Sart Log		: Starts log func ... all messages in window
;;                                will be recorded in the file
;;   System/Stop Log		: ...
;;   System/Messager		: chat with the client or server, if there is
;;   System/Quit		: Ctrl+Shift-Q
;;---
;;   Serial Port/Open		: See "Ctrl-O" above
;;   Serial Port/Close		: See "Ctrl-C" above
;;   Serial Port/Refresh list	: Refresh the list of serial ports
;;   Serial Port/Auto Open	: Auto open the serial port when it is comming
;;   Serial Port/Debug		: Shows serial port debug msg such as open/close etc.
;;   Serial Port/Hex		: Shows data in hex format
;;   Serial Port/CR		: Appens \r\n at end of the line
;;   Serial Port/Send file	: will send the file which it's name is in
;;				  "Input" box
;;   				  - The file will be splited in 256 bytes for
;;				    each block to sending.
;;   				  - Between each blocks will delay the number
;;				    of ticks shows in "Auto sending delay ticks"
;;				    box.
;;   Serial Port/Stop sending	: Stop file sending
;;   Serial Port/DTR		: DTR enabled/disabled...[Serial_Port]/ControlDTR
;;   Serial Port/RTS		: RTS enabled/disabled...[Serial_Port]/ControlRTS
;;   Serial Port/Send Line	: Send the string line in the "Input" box to
;;				  the serial port
;;---
;;   Sock/Open			: 1) Start listening on the ports in
;;				     [Listen_Port] section
;;				  2) Try to connect to the servers in [Server]
;;				     section if there are
;;   Sock/Close			: Close all sockets
;;   Sock/Debug			: Shows socket messages in the window
;;   Sock/Hex			: Shows the data come from the sock in hex format
;;   Sock/Send Line		: This is for the test purpose
;;---
;;   Options			: N/A
;;---
;;   Clear			: Flush log file(if logging); clear message window
;;..............................................................................
;;  Hex options need to work with "dump" enabled
;;  See batch script for detail
;;------------------------------------------------------------------------------
;; "Serial Port/Send File" will send the file which it's name is in "Input" box
;;   - The file will be splited in 256 bytes for each block to sending.
;;   - Between blocks will delay the number of ticks shows in
;;     "Auto sending delay ticks" box.
;;------------------------------------------------------------------------------
;; Updates would be YaTTYD.github.com
;; Any suggestions, comment and bug report are very welcome. Thanks!
;; Sory for my English :-p
;;------------------------------------------------------------------------------
;; YaTTYD@GMail.com
;;==============================================================================

;;------------------------------------------------------------------------------
;; please note: comments at end of the line are not acceptable
;; for example:
;;   Key = 20		;; Wrong
;;   ;; below line is correct
;;   Key = 20
;;------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[Listen_Port]
;;; TCP server listening ports
;;; If you want to connect to YaTTYD over the Internet, below ports must be
;;; forwarding to Internet; otherwise please see the comment in [Server]
;;------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Control		=53001
			;;; Control port: chat and control channel
Security	=53002
			;;; N/A
;;------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Data    	=53003
			;;; Data : listening port: all data come from this port
			;;;   will be passed to the serial port; and all data
			;;;   from serial port will be passed to this port to
			;;;   the client utility
;;------------------------------------------------------------------------------
debug		=1
			;;; GUI->Sock->Debug
			;;; Shows socket debug messages such as sock open/close etc.
;;------------------------------------------------------------------------------
----------------------------------

## Ini file <p id="partII"></p>

[Server]
;;; YaTTYD can also running as a client end in the mean time
;;;   The data come from serial port will be passed to "Data Server"
;;;   "Data Server" is listening on "DataPort"; the address is "DataIP"
;;;
;;;   Log server accept the log messages come from YaTTYD:
;;;   All msg shown in the windows of YaTTYD will be sent to "Log Sever"
;;;   "Log Server" is listening on port "LogPort"; the address is "LogIP"
;;;
;;; This option makes it is possible:
;;;   Put YaTTYD in your customer side and connect to the device
;;;   Open/forwarding your port to the Internet
;;;   Listening on the port; wait the connection from YaTTYD
;;;   Receiving data from the device : device->YaTTYD->your own server utility
;;;   Sending data tp the device     : your server->YaTTYD->device
;;------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ControlIP	=yatty.dyndns.org
ControlPort	=3057
					;; Control server IP and port
					;; data behaviors here is similar
					;; to [Listen_Port]/Control
;;------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DataIP		=yatty.dyndns.org
DataPort	=3058
					;; refer to [Listen_Port]/Data
;;------------------------------------------------------------------------------
LogIP		=yatty.dyndns.org
LogPort		=3055
					;; log server
;;------------------------------------------------------------------------------
retry_delay 	=-1
					;; if not connected to the servers, will
					;; do retry 5 times. the time interval
					;; for each time:
					;; "retry_delay" seconds
					;; "retry_delay*2" seconds
					;; "retry_delay*2*2" seconds
					;; "retry_delay*2*2*2" seconds
					;; "retry_delay*2*2*2*2" seconds
					;; -1 means don't connect to the servers
;;------------------------------------------------------------------------------

;;------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[Server-if-server_and_yattyd_sit_at_same_computer]
ControlIP	=127.0.0.1
ControlPort	=3057
;;------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DataIP		=127.0.0.1
DataPort	=3058
;;------------------------------------------------------------------------------
LogIP		=yatty.dyndns.org
LogPort		=3055
;;------------------------------------------------------------------------------
retry_delay 	=15
;;------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[Serial_Port]
;;; serial port setting parameters
;;; the parameters will be updated when they are changed by GUI
Baud=115200
DataBits 	=8
StopBits	=1
Parity		=None
ControlDTR	=1
		;;; GUI->Serial Port->DTR
ControlRTS	=1
		;;; GUI->Serial Port->RTS

AutoOpen=1
		;;; GUI->Serial Port->Auto Open
		;;; USB-Serial port will open automatically,
		;;;   when the USB-serial port is detected
OpenDelay=5
		;;; After detected the USB changing delays n ticks
		;;;  (100ms per tick) then open the serial port.
		;;;  AutoOpen has to be 1
refresh_delay=550
		;;;
debug=0
		;;; GUI->Serial Port->Debug
		;;; Shows debug messages such as port open/close etc.
Hex=0
		;;; GUI->Serail Port->Debug
		;;; shows data in hex format
CR=1
		;;; GUI->Serail Port->CR
		;;; Appends "\r\n" at the end of each input

[http]
root_dir = "wwwroot"
port = 8181

[Application]
one_insdence=1
Auto_Hide=1
Top=264
Left=542
Width=506
Height=287
;;; default 380W x 240H

Log	=0
		;;; GUI->System->Start Log/Stop Log

;;===EOF========================================================================


{{ page.date|date_to_string }}
