---
layout: default
title: strstr.c
---

# {{ page.title }}

### UC

	/* 
	 * strstr.c --
	 *
	 *	Source code for the "strstr" library routine.
	 *
	 * Copyright (c) 1988-1993 The Regents of the University of California.
	 * Copyright (c) 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
	 *
	 * See the file "license.terms" for information on usage and redistribution
	 * of this file, and for a DISCLAIMER OF ALL WARRANTIES.
	 *
	 * SCCS: @(#) strstr.c 1.4 96/02/15 12:08:22
	 */
	
	/*
	 *----------------------------------------------------------------------
	 *
	 * strstr --
	 *
	 *	Locate the first instance of a substring in a string.
	 *
	 * Results:
	 *	If string contains substring, the return value is the
	 *	location of the first matching instance of substring
	 *	in string.  If string doesn't contain substring, the
	 *	return value is 0.  Matching is done on an exact
	 *	character-for-character basis with no wildcards or special
	 *	characters.
	 *
	 * Side effects:
	 *	None.
	 *
	 *----------------------------------------------------------------------
	 */
	
	char *
	strstr(string, substring)
	    register char *string;	/* String to search. */
	    char *substring;		/* Substring to try to find in string. */
	{
	    register char *a, *b;
	
	    /* First scan quickly through the two strings looking for a
	     * single-character match.  When it's found, then compare the
	     * rest of the substring.
	     */
	
	    b = substring;
	    if (*b == 0) {
		return string;
	    }
	    for ( ; *string != 0; string += 1) {
		if (*string != *b) {
		    continue;
		}
		a = string;
		while (1) {
		    if (*b == 0) {
			return string;
		    }
		    if (*a++ != *b++) {
			break;
		    }
		}
		b = substring;
	    }
	    return (char *) 0;
	}
    
### Apple

	/* Simple implementation of strstr for systems without it.
	   This function is in the public domain.  */
	
	/*
	
	@deftypefn Supplemental char* strstr (const char *@var{string}, const char *@var{sub})
	
	This function searches for the substring @var{sub} in the string
	@var{string}, not including the terminating null characters.  A pointer
	to the first occurrence of @var{sub} is returned, or @code{NULL} if the
	substring is absent.  If @var{sub} points to a string with zero
	length, the function returns @var{string}.
	
	@end deftypefn
	
	
	*/
	
	
	/* FIXME:  The above description is ANSI compiliant.  This routine has not
	   been validated to comply with it.  -fnf */
	
	char *
	strstr (s1, s2)
	  char *s1, *s2;
	{
	  register char *p = s1;
	  extern char *strchr ();
	  extern int strncmp ();
	#if __GNUC__ >= 2
	  extern __SIZE_TYPE__ strlen (const char *);
	#endif
	  register int len = strlen (s2);
	
	  for (; (p = strchr (p, *s2)) != 0; p++)
	    {
	      if (strncmp (p, s2, len) == 0)
		{
		  return (p);
		}
	    }
	  return (0);
	}
	
### Linux Kernel

	/**
	 * strstr - Find the first substring in a %NUL terminated string
	 * @s1: The string to be searched
	 * @s2: The string to search for
	 */
	char *strstr(const char *s1, const char *s2)
	{
	        size_t l1, l2;
	        l2 = strlen(s2);
	        if (!l2) { return (char *)s1; }
	        l1 = strlen(s1);
	        while (l1 >= l2) {
	                l1--;
	                if (!memcmp(s1, s2, l2)) { return (char *)s1; }
	                s1++;
	        }
	        return NULL;
	}


### OpenBSD

	#include <string.h>

	/*
	 * Find the first occurrence of find in s.
	 */
	char *
	strstr(const char *s, const char *find)
	{
		char c, sc;
		size_t len;
	
		if ((c = *find++) != 0) {
			len = strlen(find);
			do {
				do {
					if ((sc = *s++) == 0)
						return (NULL);
				} while (sc != c);
			} while (strncmp(s, find, len) != 0);
			s--;
		}
		return ((char *)s);
	}	