---
layout: default
title: strsep.c
tags: "C"
categories: "Training"
---

# {{ page.title }}

### Linux Kernel

	/**
	 * strpbrk - Find the first occurrence of a set of characters
	 * @cs: The string to be searched
	 * @ct: The characters to search for
	 */
	char *strpbrk(const char *cs, const char *ct)
	{
	        const char *sc1, *sc2;
	        for (sc1 = cs; *sc1 != '\0'; ++sc1) {
	                for (sc2 = ct; *sc2 != '\0'; ++sc2) {
	                        if (*sc1 == *sc2) { return (char *)sc1; }
	                }
	        }
	        return NULL;
	}
	
	/**
	 * strsep - Split a string into tokens
	 * @s: The string to be searched
	 * @ct: The characters to search for
	 *
	 * strsep() updates @s to point after the token, ready for the next call.
	 *
	 * It returns empty tokens, too, behaving exactly like the libc function
	 * of that name. In fact, it was stolen from glibc2 and de-fancy-fied.
	 * Same semantics, slimmer shape. ;)
	 */
	char *strsep(char **s, const char *ct)
	{
	        char *sbegin = *s;
	        char *end;
	        if (sbegin == NULL) { return NULL; }
	        end = strpbrk(sbegin, ct);
	        if (end) { *end++ = '\0'; }
	        *s = end;
	        return sbegin;
	}
	
### UC & OpenBSD

	/*
	 * Get next token from string *stringp, where tokens are possibly-empty
	 * strings separated by characters from delim.
	 *
	 * Writes NULs into the string at *stringp to end tokens.
	 * delim need not remain constant from call to call.
	 * On return, *stringp points past the last NUL written (if there might
	 * be further tokens), or is NULL (if there are definitely no more tokens).
	 *
	 * If *stringp is NULL, strsep returns NULL.
	 */
	char *
	strsep(char **stringp, const char *delim)
	{
		char *s;
		const char *spanp;
		int c, sc;
		char *tok;
		if ((s = *stringp) == NULL)
			return (NULL);
		for (tok = s;;) {
			c = *s++;
			spanp = delim;
			do {
				if ((sc = *spanp++) == c) {
					if (c == 0) {s = NULL;}
					else {s[-1] = 0;}
					*stringp = s;
					return (tok);
				}
			} while (sc != 0);
		}
		/* NOTREACHED */
	}
		